we should be live
right
yeah all
right had had to switch the setup around
real
quick not bad
yeah and let
me
oops let's move myself over
make the chat a little larger
today hey
linky there we
go that's a decent setup for a bit I
know why I didn't think you're doing
this
before uh what is puffer at and stars I
think it did pretty well with the video
Stars dang that's pretty
good yeah
867 that's
nice
uh
okay editing stuff let me increase the H
this is
good pretty much just going to be
chilling and uh I should post in the
Discord
yeah hello
folks algorithm just recommended me your
thesis defense and I really enjoyed it
thank
you there's uh a long video I just
posted last night that's me going
through the the puffer Li paper that
one's more technical uh and then what
I'm editing in the background here will
be a new much higher production video on
puffer lib reinforcement learning and my
thoughts on the
field so pretty soon as soon as I finish
editing this I think I have a decent
amount done on the editing of Parts one
through five out of uh 12 total I
believe so should be good for
yeah pretty much ideas just to hang out
for a couple hours here edit this for a
little bit and uh answer any questions
people have along the way on RL puffer
lib stuff in general we have a few
people doing um custom environments and
stuff so I figured some might drop by
tokens yeah 15 billion it looks
like is this their big
16,000
freaking
weird still don't understand exactly
how every so often I'll do stuff with
the video editor and it'll do something
weird
I don't know how far the goal is to get
on this
today
um I don't know we'll
see 2/3 done maybe 2/3 done at least on
the initial
pass wouldn't be
terrible I will say it got a little bit
easier when I actually got a proper
video
editor instead of trying to do it in
like you know the dinky little ones I'd
use for previous stuff
folks I'm just editing stuff in the
background and chatting about RL with
whoever because until I get this darn
video done not much else is going to
happen but I think it'll be a good
video I hope it does well we'll
see but uh I think people will like
it of course I have it blurred no
spoilers but you know
yep soon
don't quite have assets for everything I
would
want unfortunately
use the puffer
figure it's from the archive paper you
can kind of see
it speaking of which there is a video up
on the puffer paper
that's part of the reason I'm hanging
around fig maybe a couple people want to
chat about it who knows
I figured this would make it slightly
less boring as well like editing is
really just like mind numbing brain dead
hey mate watch the Youtube vid on your a
paper good stuff thank
you uh I put a little poll on Twitter
and uh I just asked if people wanted
like a quick video that wouldn't take
too long to produce um so I made that
one uh the thing I'm editing here in the
background is like a 100 Hour project or
whatever um it's like going to be like a
30 minute video or so but just way
higher quality so that's what I'm doing
at the moment so we'll see how that goes
but I figured I'd drop by and answer
random RL questions in the meantime ESP
especially for people that are like
trying to Dev
Sims I really hate video editing though
it's
like I guess technically I could just
get somebody to do all the edits and I
could just do the scripting and stuff
which would take
me somewhat less time at least I don't
know even the scripting and like the
recording of stuff just takes forever
though
I think it was a total
of like probably 16 hours of recording
for 30 minutes of
footage what are some of the most useful
courses you took to scale RL algorithms
right her performance RL code there is
not a single course uh I have ever taken
that has been directly related to
reinforcement learning they're simply
are not courses for this stuff um in
fact a lot of the low-level stuff I do
now
I can credit Stanford with absolutely
ruining systems for me because I had
just a terrible systems
lecturer um so I had to kind of
ReDiscover some stuff on my own there um
let's see scale for WR high performance
RL code honestly it's just been a ton of
doing it's just been like a ton of doing
stuff uh the easy if you're looking to
learn like honestly the easiest way to
get involved with this stuff is to just
start doing stuff with puffer because
like I'm writing all the highest perf RL
stuff out there and it's really not that
complicated like the whole stack has a
few thousand lines of
code it turns out it's like it can be
made very simple if you
try
yeah what do you think 16 hours of
recording for 30 minutes of footage is
too long or Too Short
kind of entitled in gatekeeping it's the
opposite of gatekeeping man I'm saying
you can literally just like show up and
start doing stuff gatekeeping would be
me saying that you need to take like
these five Stamford courses or whatever
right and these like five MIT courses
and you need to do all the stuff that
I've done the exact opposite of
gatekeeping have to take some courses
compile OS probably I didn't though um I
don't know I think that really the only
useful courses you do need a base an ml
generally uh the ones that I think were
actually good were like my intro CS
course at Stanford was good it filled in
a bunch of random gaps and then after
that like probably 231n was the other
one that was really good that's online
too data structures wouldn't be bad data
structures is like the intro course uh
it so
you if you program before you get to
undergrad you skip the first course so
it's technically the second course it's
106 x is the course that covers data
structures and uh algorithms at least
more implementation less theory
side that was useful
but not too much upside of that
that was pretty funny I sure as hell
don't want to be gatekeeping when I just
made a freaking hour and a half video
about how [ __ ] the academic
gatekeeping is right
already taken directly related to ml
won't be a complete waste of time most
of the stuff will be a complete waste of
time it's really like start doing like
start doing stuff right like start doing
cool open source stuff start doing
projects we have lots of people in the
Discord making like high perf RL Sims
now uh with no prior experience now like
yeah I've made it a little bit easier
with the way I've set stuff up but like
you can still learn and do a lot of
stuff really
fast I will say though like this is
assuming you have at least some like
background in uh in general programming
that's the one thing the thing that
takes forever is getting to be like good
at general pro like General programming
that takes forever uh honestly I think
that's probably the hardest thing is
like writing code that does not make
your eyes want to
bleed only metric that matters Ms is the
I bed
like assuming like that there's that I'm
not completely bullshitting like you
have to learn from somewhere right it's
the most accessible way of learning is
just by doing stuff right you need a
laptop that's all you
need I I mean you don't even like you
should see some of the code that I wrote
when I was younger when I started I
wrote some absolute garbage code all
right have you ever seen somebody try to
process a graph without knowing what a
graph is let me tell you in some poor
Stanford research codebase from when I
was 16 there is like a recursive method
that has 12 layers of nested four Loops
for me just trying to like special case
all the portions of a graph and write
Loops all the way down
[Laughter]
graph
[Applause]
okay I could have solved it in about 10
lines of code in 20 minutes with like
breath for search or
something just breath for search there
are a few algorithms I occasionally use
they're the really simple ones right
like the simple search alos
you seen the MOBA that I've been
building so in that thing what we do is
we do uh we do breath for search
right but then we cach the results of
breath first search from every tile on
the map to every other tile in the map
so we have o of one breath first search
at runtime because it's just all
pre-computed so there are some cool
things you can do
you should see who we have on the
Pokemon project we have people that came
in with like no experience at all and
are kicking ass these days it's pretty
cool to
oh yeah I forgot I made a figure for
this I can just
use one of the funny things from
um the the video on the paper which I
guess I didn't say explicitly
but I find it very perverse when you
have like an a area of work in which
it's basically a total clown show um but
you insist on being very formal about
everything
like to me that's like something is
wrong there right like if something is
if you're going to have an area of
research or an area of science or
something where like everything is just
totally messed up like at least own it
right so it's like oh yeah you know the
paper that's trying to like have the
field not be completely on fire yeah
it's like it's not respectful enough or
whatever the academic context like come
on you can say that when your field
isn't on
the hope is that I'll finish editing
this maybe tomorrow
evening um I'll get a little bit of of a
breather over the weekend I'll release
the new video and then I'll be able to
spend most of next week doing like
actual cool lowl systems work again with
puffer but we'll
see we'll see
I don't think I've ever done Advent of
code or any of those things I've
actually never even been to a hackathon
isn't that
funny it's like why would I go to a
hackathon you know what I call a
hackathon I just call that Saturday
I will say one thing that was
um at least starting with like way
younger when I
did even though I think like it would
have been easier to learn now because
I'd just be generally way less
stupid um was being able to just work
the hours I did when I was younger it's
it's hard to comp it's like it's hard
not to learn stuff when you're pulling
100 hour
weeks I don't do that
anymore but uh you know doing that early
on definitely
helped probably wouldn't take me as long
now I don't know I generally think like
stuff is way easier for me to learn now
when I was younger
what lowlevel work on puffer are you
referring to you can look through the
puffer code um but for the new stuff I'm
working on I'm trying to make it really
easy to push M's from python to scon to
C so I'm trying to have like a really
nice way of having a s code be easy to
Port from high level to low level so
that you can start out prototyping and
then you can get the performance and
then if you want it to run on the web
you can um go to PC for web
assembly so I want to make that better
uh and I generally want to make it
easier for people to contribute
different interesting simulators uh to
puffer and to be able to learn how to do
like ultra high per simd
it's actually kind of funny how good
scon is like there's still a couple
things in C I haven't figured out a good
way to do that are easy in scon like the
support for multi-dimensional arrays is
just so so nice and like it's hard to
get around that basically everything
else is just as easy in in Native C but
I haven't found a good a good workaround
for multi-dimensional arrays puffer
require model written pie torch nope why
can you not use Jack based model with an
EnV that cannot be written entirely
Jacks wait why can you not use a jack
you can totally use Jack for your models
if you want to um the puffer core
doesn't depend on Torch or any other
learning library our demos are in torch
because I generally think that it's the
better framework at the moment um but
yeah if you want to do Jack demos you
can just like use our vectorization and
then know write uh just slot the
vectorized environment in where you'd
slot your vectorized environment in for
uh for any other learning
library it's like a gymnasium VC style
API so it'll be it's like easy to slot
in any
anywhere tagline is a bit misleading
what tagline is
tagline oh oh yeah yeah you have a pie
torch yeah yeah I
uh that's a that's an older that's like
an old older one I should probably
update
that yeah that
was that was like one of the first ones
that's on the homepage yeah you're
right I should just replace it with
model the thing is because all the demos
use pytorch I have it in pie torch right
um I Jax has gotten larger since I made
puffer I still don't think Jax is in a
place where I would be interested in
doing much with it unless I had like a
good reason to do so
um yeah that ecosystem is way too
fragmented it's like it's like the
JavaScript ecosystem practically where
they have all these different third
party libraries that don't play nice
together it's like the opposite of play
nice
learning how to do basic animations in
the background so that the video cannot
be
garbage I left it just blurred enough so
you can see the basic of what's going on
with the
content let's
see yada yada thing slides over
cool you know maybe not Jack's models
but I am I am kind of interested in tiny
grad by policy I don't usually I'm
usually not going to be the first one to
play around with new libraries and
Frameworks I generally wait for more
stable stuff um just because I end up
wasting a lot of
time the one the one major limitation
with tiny grat at the moment that uh
gives me some pause is just the fact
that they're doing they are not having
an optimized eager mode so everything
has to be compiled which makes it really
hard to do like fancy forward passes I
think it would make the lstm hard makes
a lot of the things that we currently do
difficult cuz everything has to always
run compiled it's one of the really nice
things about pie torches eager mode is
the default and it's optimized for like
pretty fast eager
folks just hanging out answering RL
stuff working on the background
some people tell me that the uh the
puffer docks on the GitHub bio were
really clear and some people tell me
like they don't know what the hell is
going going on with it so I don't know
who to
believe I guess this does kind of just
cater to like our lowest level
stuff spurred anyways but puff Ray I get
habo it does cater to like our lower
level stuff it doesn't really show you
the latest demos and
things I don't know might have to expand
some stuff
I see you regularly go on stream for
hours on end hope you're staying healthy
and getting some exercise in love the
work on the puffer
fish I think I'm getting some extra
exercise in
right well there goes the green
screen one
hold on let me fix this and I'll tell
you ah
jeez I think we're good I think it's
still in a good spot
yeah H now I've got slightly green
borders around me but
whatever um so I ran a 50k 3 weeks ago
or so I posted the training for that on
my Twitter let me find the article
article so I did the 50k like three
weeks ago
and uh I'm generally running six days a
week and doing some amount of power
lifting five days a week on top of
that so
yeah doing at least a couple hours of
exercise a day for
I can't believe I managed to knock the
green screen
situation
yeah I don't do anything else outside of
that mind you I pretty much just will go
work out and write code and do this
stuff that's pretty
good it's a very good investment of time
right honestly it's one of the it's the
one thing that I I sometimes will post
outside of tech is just like more tech
people definitely need to be getting
some Fitness
in um yeah it's a it's really important
so I will sometime share some stuff with
that
yeah damn if I'm getting those questions
I got to change the camera angle or
yeah next video is not going to be in a
tux next video in swim trunks
I Mo like as a farm hand good exercise
and working on problems while I go hey
that's
hell I just have my barbells I wasn't
able to do any like uh squats or
deadlifts for probably three or four
months um while I was doing the running
training cuz I was doing I did a couple
marathons I had to build for this the
50k and it was just way way too much to
be running 40 50 mil a week and also be
trying to do lower body work but uh I've
started those back now it'll take a
while to build that back up but the goal
is going to be to build the running
volume back up uh takes a long time to
recover from a 50k so that's going to
take a bit and then uh build it back up
but with the lower body strength back I
want to be able to pull 400 again I
haven't done that in two years because
of the running
it shouldn't be that hard though to get
it back I think I was 10 pounds close to
10 pounds lighter a couple years ago
when I was in like the peak uh Peak
shape for
that it's not fat so should be easy to
get it
back sounds intense ah four plate
deadlift is pretty intermediate right
for uh weighin
180 thing one 75 I think when I hit
it I had long arms my squad's
I don't know what to do with this one I
have a table that's too big to put in
anywhere reasonably it's going to stand
in front of
it did you know you can apply
reinforcement learning to your body just
as well as to
agents yeah if you just apply a reward
signal it gets better
there's absolutely no reward signal
coming out of editing this video I can
tell you that much God works with horses
does it I thought you can lead a horse
to water but you can't make it
drink maybe adjust your reward signal a
bit
yeah if I'm doing more of these videos
I'm definitely just hiring an editor
because holy
hell I find it like incredibly
incredibly difficult to do anything that
I find boring like at
all it's very very difficult to focus on
anything I'm not interested in I I can't
force myself to focus on something if
I'm like just bored
you can make him do anything you want if
you feed them enough treats except the
ones who are
[ __ ] I the clip from the Olympics of
like the uh the jumping was it the
jumping horse just like dumping the
rider into like one of the barriers for
some random
out I don't think I've ever seen a horse
IRL you in New York City or something
cities I don't know I got a bunch of
weird quirks like I cannot I actually
don't like I sto functioning in cities
as
well horse was exhausted ryer ignored
the signals and tried to force to jump
it the horse knew it couldn't make
that's what I saw in the
comments that's what I saw in the
comments it was still kind of silly that
it like dumped the rider into an
obstacle and just instead of just being
like
no well actually what the hell actually
yeah yeah I know it right like you're in
a big city which is probably going to be
New York
right
yeah I understand why people like New
York city as well right like there's all
sorts of stuff happening there but for
me literally if I spend 3 days in New
York I'll have severe depression by the
end of it like I don't know it's too
much all at once need the peace and
quiet great animals you get very soft
noses oh also nobody tells you horses
are freaking massive as
well they're like massive
animals for
some that are taller than me and the
mini who's a strange
looking oh yeah I saw a bunch recently
that were all taller than
me they stand like
what 6 and 1 12 feet tall or am I
crazy taller than that no they're taller
than that aren't
they okay maybe I'm I know what I'm
doing but
we pretty much got the plan oh who's
that welcome
probably folks have seen it but if you
haven't there's an hour and a half long
rambly video I say rambly it's decently
produced at least it's one take but
think it's decent of me going through
the puffer Li paper and giving some
extra thoughts on uh the Youtube so
that's there now and there will be a
substantially higher produce video as
soon as I finish editing it here in the
background
through and eventually I just got so
bored that I was like okay I'm going to
throw the stream on up before I go
insane doing
this so really like you think that uh
the stream is me entertaining you but in
fact it is you entertaining
me chill stream to hang out on
procrastinating editing the stuff loock
Y and occasionally cool RL happens in
here as
usually cool RL happens to be fair what
do you think about off policy RL
sure I've had fine enough luck with Po
and Rainbow's kind of gross and
complicated compared to
um compared to PO I guess sic yeah sic
is usually more robotics people
though I don't really care about on
policy versus off policy like I that's
not a hill I care about very
much toing around to
bet but the thing is like I haven't
really seen a compelling reason to use
one over the other necessarily I like Po
solves DOTA so that's what I use right
as my default uh it's also probably a
simpler algorithm if you think about it
as well um yeah
Dynamic game difficulty with
RL yeah totally that's totally a thing
you can
do in fact when I started puffer puffer
was going to be it was going to be all
in on games it was going to be a games
uh company
but then I realized that it's actually
very difficult to work with a lot of the
games industry people so I decided screw
it I'm going to make it way broader and
we're going to do like more lowlevel
tools and we're really going to push the
field forward and not going to get too
hung up on the specific
applications can you suggest why
Transformers usually perform worse than
J's LS when adding recurrence to RL
algorithms they don't Transformers are
fine it's just that uh they're really
annoying to implement with the way that
data collection Works in RL like they're
really obnoxious to implement correctly
and even if you do Implement them
correctly they're way slower because
they have quadratic time over the
context window not to mention the
attention operations themselves are huge
memory Hogs so uh RL loves data it loves
when you can just consume data and data
and data uh so the trade-off is speed
right it's nothing fundamental about the
architecture in fact you know sample for
sample I guarantee a Transformers are
going to be better um if you if you do
it correctly but that's the only
reason I've heard of
um there are newer like recurrent State
space models that apparently are good uh
that I need to look at there's
apparently actually has there apparently
has actually been some model progress
that might be a huge thing for RL but
here's my whole thing with puffer and
you'll hear this in the video like I
don't want to do anything on the
experiment side until we have the fast
environments because think about it like
right now you're going to spend 3 months
like actually trying to test whether
your new thing is any good but once I
have all these fast environments it's
going to be like
run Baseline comprehensively on all
these environments overnight boom there
you're like 100 billion steps worth of
experimental results and then Implement
your new thing run that overnight and
now you have comprehensive conclusive
evidence for everything so it just
enables you to do such such easier
research so that's what I'm focused on
now Mamba yeah
exactly I have not read any of the
um I mean they're not even that new at
this point right but I haven't read any
of the architecture papers on it let me
look real
quick linear time sequence modeling hold
on I can let me undo the blur for a
structured let's
see State space models let me see let me
see why these would be any good what are
these each channel of an
input what does it mean each channel of
an
this and why is this better than an lstm
let me
pretty good YouTube
video Yeah DM me the link I'll look at
that at some
point three so the linear
projection okay so the SSM block I don't
understand the math here just on the
first
glance um
I'm going to have to actually look at
the math for this in more detail at some
point here
is it linear time with a gigantic
constant Mamba 2
already
H I guess these things have been tested
way outside of RL
right so maybe I should look at this the
thing is like okay let me go back to
this
blur um the thing is in RL at least um I
generally am not an early adopter of
stuff because I just assume all of the
published papers are wrong until proven
otherwise which ends up being a really
good
heuristic because like RL is just the
stuff is just always
wrong
um but yeah if it works on language
modeling and stuff then it's probably
good so I'll have to look at those I
have to also see the time complexity and
stuff like how fast they are compared to
uh like an lstm because we're directly
looking at wall clock
time don't know anyone uses
S4 and like for
RL which is weird because if it's a
state if it's a state based model it
should be really easy to implement
right so I assume that it's very
slow or that it doesn't or that it's
like not effective at small parameter
scales or something
because I generally assume like will be
everywhere if it's like if something is
like in the giant uh set of popular
things right where everybody's looking
at it usually all the stuff has been
done
already like the way I I consistently do
new stuff that nobody's ever thought of
is by doing crazy out there things
hell6 how does neural MMO have 1.6k
listed stars did I mess that up I think
I might have messed that
up that's
weird that 1.6 case I don't
know oh because it's linked to the open
AI repo that's
why
okay that's
fine back to editing
the thing that sucks with making these
videos is
like this basically has to get 50k views
in order for it to be worth making with
the amount of time that it's
taken that's the that's the real kicker
on making these
welcome YouTube people welcome twitch
people I'll put the I'll link my other
video for the playlist or whatever for
later cuz there is a video out I kind of
just made this one CU Twitter asked me
to
and uh I figured it would tide people
over until the new ones
released it's a long video hour and a
half um you can kind of just listen to
it in the background or whatever if you
want it's got some cool stuff on Puffer
imagine how much time professors
waste to make present well but the thing
is it's closer to a one-time cost there
because they reuse the material every
year and they actually do not prep the
lectures very well at all like they
don't prep the delivery of the lectures
uh anywhere near to the extent that you
would put into a Polish presentation
listen to it this morning while working
well thank you I hope there's some
interesting stuff in
there I mean then you know the basic
architecture of all the stuff the thing
that the puffer paper doesn't cover is
um the thing that like now so puffer
exists right and that paper sets up all
the stuff I'm doing now to actually be
useful so the thing is now because we
have these million step per second Sims
because of all the other stuff in puffer
we can actually get the full million out
of it and we can have everything like
train Ultra Ultra fast and we can run
Ultra fast experiments and everything
without all the puffer INF for would be
a pain in the ass to do all that
should probably add a bib text
block yeah I should there is an archive
paper technically right and the archive
paper is linked on the
website yeah the archive paper is at the
top of the
website but yeah you're right it needs a
bib Tex
block sight the puffer
fish really I want to finish this video
and then just hang out and WR C for the
next couple weeks what I want to
do what about that can I just like
finish this video and then go write a
bunch of cool C code for the next few
go I will say that the video did seem to
do at least something for um the puffer
repository though it's been stuck at 867
all day um but overnight it got uh quite
a nice
bump for
I'm hoping that soon we'll start to see
uh a lot of people I mean we already
have a few people contributing Sims I'm
hoping that we'll see a lot more of that
soon because it's going to get even
easier than it is now and like for how
fast these things run it's already
pretty darn easy
oops let's put this
here I don't even have a neural
mographic in here do I
that's a little silly the amount of time
I spend on neural
MMO little neural MMO graphic in
I think I finally fixed the YouTube
monetization as well well we'll see
whether they approve stuff but I mean
I'm sure that's Z do but whatever
I will say that the one thing that does
slightly bother me with um The Sims at
the moment
is that like it's so nice if you put
them in C because you can just run them
on the web but I don't want to have to
ask people to write C code and even if I
make it really simple C code it's still
a lot to ask
people so I think think scyon is going
to be good
enough' be really nice if I could put
that on the web but I don't think that's
going to be
doable the other thing with scon is like
I
think I don't think that there's a
way excuse me there isn't like an easy
way to have um persistent objects in
scyon that are not
classes I don't think that you can just
have
a
struct in
scon and have a handle to it in Python
which is a little Annoying there are a
couple limitations
883 lines for all of puffer back at the
moment oh no 739 lines code the comments
wonder where Nathan and Noah are they've
been doing cool stuff with environments
lately if you haven't looked at the uh
the
Discord discord.gg puffer there are some
cool environment being built in
there by contributors
wonder why puffer uses an lstm rapper
instead of a GRU thought Gru was better
than l LM for current tasks clean RL
uses l no I don't think there's anything
that says a GRU is better than
lstm um DOTA used an lstm I'm pretty
sure that they tested both and also here
let me link you this is the classic
paper on
this
paper uh they
did a ton of
experiments 5400
experiments uh studying like all the
different types of
things none other variants improve on
lstm significantly
so they did a big study here and it's
basically like yeah it turns out the
lstm's hard to
beat there was a little discussion
of State space models in here a while
ago maybe those would be
better we'll see about that
but it's not going to be as simple as
just swapping Gru and if you want to try
it by the way you could probably change
like 10 lines of code and have a GRU
instead of the lstm
I wonder if any of the DOTA
guys some of them are still around doing
stuff
I wonder if any of them would
answer if they tried grus I'm sure they
did I I almost I'm almost sure that I
remember them having discussed
this as well basically everything was
disgusted over lunch at one point or
another I'm pretty sure all the ndas are
expired by now
right I forget what mine was how long
mine was
for it can't be longer than five though
okay and that is section
six basically
edited least is a decent enough first
pass
so one more section maybe one more
section
today and then
what I have one meeting
tomorrow but I had one today as
well so I think that if I do a decent
amount of work tomorrow if I get one
more section done
today I should be able to
get the full first pass on the video
done and then maybe I'll code Saturday
finalize it Sunday something like
that we'll
see or finalize it
Monday I don't know if I want to be
doing this on
Sunday burnt myself pretty hard last
week just doing this all weekend
maybe I'll just get as far as I can
tomorrow and then I'll finish it on
Monday
well not
bad let's see if I can get one more of
these done
though I'll give you a little bit of a a
details on this so the format of this
video it's like 10 two to three minute
segments plus intro and outro
so I currently just finished editing
segment
six well not finished but like know all
the Assets in place all the timings
roughly roughly set
up that sort of a
thing this is by far the largest video
project I've
done it's not I wouldn't say it's
considered a spe particularly large
project but I'm not a video editor
to be fair I haven't fully checked all
the video clips yet so it's technically
possible I have like a green screen
screw up or something on one of them but
I I doubt it I think we're probably
going to be good and it's just going to
be a matter of how much I want to polish
the uh the editing and how many like
Stills I want to put on the screen while
I'm talking that kind of a
thing and if I want to do audio post or
anything like
that I think the overall quality should
be pretty
oh I didn't realize hold
on sometimes I forget that I did things
to make my own life
easier and your life doesn't get easier
if you forget that you've done the
things order to make your life easier
in this case i' forgotten i' already
prepared a figure for
hello do you work fulltime in open
source uh yes yes Tech technically all
of puffer stuff is open source so yes
puffer is also a
company um but all our stuff is free and
open source so this is my
job of course
there's some company stuff and some
promo stuff so like me editing this
video in the Blurred
background how's the company earn money
it doesn't yet it's a brand new company
that said as soon as I publish this
video we'll be officially open for
business and any companies that want
support extra support on puffer or on uh
related reinforcement learning things
want priority features uh and Extras
we'll be able to pay for that
but the full library is open source
I mess something up here I did mess
something up
of course when you're spinning your own
thing you end up doing uh you know a
bunch of random stuff too like this
going toe to B good going toe to bed
night all see you around thanks for
dropping by there will be actual Dev on
here relatively soon in a few
days soon as I finish this random stuff
basically with this one I wanted to
actually put enough effort into this
video that
um you know if anything is going to
repeat the success of my thesis video it
should be this
thing so if this doesn't work I'll go
okay you know the RL video was a oneoff
I'll focus more in Dev and stream
streaming and stuff and maybe a few
easier to produce videos um but yeah
this is the high effort one to see as a
test it does well we'll do more of them
if not we'll just do more Dev on
stream there's going to be stuff either
way it's just what I
do and ultimately I'd rather just be
writing code so I won't be too too
disappointed I
guess but I think that people will get a
kick out of this
it's always possible to just miss but
we'll see
here something weird
happened
no I didn't mess anything up
okay oh perfect I found
the code Snippets I was looking
edit I'm a little bit annoyed to see
that I think that the quality actually
increases in the later
Clips I'll have to watch the whole thing
through and see if I want to re-record
anything like I think it go from maybe
like a s out of 10 up to a 9 out of 10
over the course of these clips like I
just get into swing with recording stuff
like by the end of it I'm like in my
element and like just cranking out good
Doom I think that would be a good thing
if if anybody's looking for like a cool
environment to play around with I added
a binding for it in puffer Dev and I
didn't get to play around with it enough
but uh I think it's pretty fast if you
actually render it at a reasonable
resolution Doom is
Doom they say up to 7,000 FPS but I
think it's actually can be faster than
that if you uh if you really render a
down
scale
Doom oh they actually got the viz Doom
font on their website and stuff too
that's cool
yeah this is good I should use
this that'd be nice I do a tari proen
and doom uh it's like my fast rendered
environments right
maybe we'll be able to crowdsource a
little bit of this
work maybe I'll wait until I start and
uh start actually putting bounties on
stuff
the heck why can't
I stupid something is wrong
linky how's it
going yes do indeed star the
puffer starring the puffer puer helps
out quite a bit the more people start
the puffer the more I will be able to do
Dev and not to be stuck in editing
code y linky speaking of which this Doom
environment hold on I show something
cool let me fix this
filter this Doom environment right
here I remember that I played around
with this on uh I played around with
this a couple months ago and it's
actually pretty fast if you enable like
this obscure render setting to really
render it at low res um I think we could
use this alongside like atarian procgen
and then we'd have a really nice Suite
of like rendered game environments of
varying
difficulties so we could probably do
something cool with
this viz
Doom package needs a little bit of
can we not just
remove um you'd have to do like custom
State Processing and stuff so yeah you
could I was just thinking like hey we
probably want to have a few environments
from pixels cuz some people will care
about that so like Atari proen and doom
we can probably get all of those
training at least at 30k plus which is
decent enough right that was my thinking
and then we W carbs hyper pram sweeps on
top of
okay this actually this section was
pretty quick to edit
that
uh what should I get
blurred V image makes you look like a
magician huh
well I mean it's blurred for no spoilers
I figure it's like you can kind of see
I'm doing stuff in the background and we
can
chat which for some reason we had like
12 or 13 concurrent just watching me
edit this blurred video and hanging
out so I'm not
complaining I was hoping Noah or Nathan
would stop by and I'd be able to answer
some stuff on the uh the environments
but no worries
how does one not exclusively eat junk
food that's a good
question see what I really want is I
want there to be a diner a block from my
house I want there to be like a diner
and just go and get some soup and some
eggs at 8:00
p.m. apparently that's too much to ask
for an po Alto
the economy here is so crazy you can
literally door Dash a burger from a
Michelin star restaurant and it'll be
the same as a Five Guys burger
just looking for something like
reasonably
healthy puffer still has more
stars h
true and like I care about food but I
don't like I don't really care about
high-end food right I just want like a
good like down to earth Diner around in
like a few places like that and I'm
happy
done uh I maybe can edit one more
section of this actually while who gets
here that'd be
nice
the heck is wrong with
this
fancy I have to do separate audio and
video editing
now
I'm trying to think whether this is
better or worse than making figures in
my PhD I think this is better than when
I was making figures cuz like the impact
is way clearer than just making a dumb
figure
right and I think it's not as hard to
make something at least decent compared
to making making a good figure is a
total pain
ah [ __ ] this one's going to be a lot of
figures
oops not hide the chat
right I think I remember the crafter
gift being like something
stupid I don't know I got a kick out of
the fact that the worst written
environment was also like the dumbest
size
GIF oh why can't I put a GI in
here
file doesn't look like a freaking
damaged file
it if I just name it crafter.
gif really still can't be
oh wait this is inside it maybe it's
inside of a zip
16 freaking megabyte GIF oh actually the
original doesn't even import that's
Bizarro Waites other stuff
import H something's broken with the
crafter GIF I
guess it's weird
shouldn't be anything broken with a
crafter
gift oh this environment isn't actually
as popular as I thought it
was yeah this is actually very small
repo
handbreak this hand do
gifts
does I can
export MP4
I'm hesitant to export things on this
computer I literally had to open the
case and blow on the GPU for like a
couple of minutes while I was exporting
the uh hour and a half video so that the
PC wouldn't overheat and shut down it
was like 100
Celsius don't try to encode videos on a
Mini ITX apparently
oh yeah I forget that this guy is like
insane and uploaded a two-minute
I'm tempted to reimplement crafter on
CPU just to compare to craft a and show
like you can kind of just shred stuff on
CPU if you know what you're
doing but that's that seems a little bit
Petty definitely would never be Petty
would never want to do
Good's on the
way uh
I like how I have a three minute segment
in this video basically saying slow
python is
slow you know that if you write Python
and it's slow then it's going to be slow
is frame stacking a worthwhile benefici
or beneficial
feature um
if you're not going to use an lstm for
whatever reason then yes you need frame
stacking if you are going to use an lstm
then it's largely
redundant at least in theory it should
be largely redundant it's technically
possible for it to not be redundant but
if your implementation is decent then it
should be
redundant um another thing to consider
with frame
stacking is that it puts additional onus
on
uh memory
bandwidth and on the CPU that is
rendering the
environment which usually if you're
rendering environment anyways you have
uh that's going to be the bottleneck
usually the rendered environment is the
bottleneck not the learning so I would
generally not want to put more onus on
that side of the
code um that said it has been I think
one of the reasons it was very
worthwhile to use frame stacking over an
lstm
uh previously in like older benchmarks
is that their lstm implementations were
just really
bad good for context of velocity yeah
but in lstm will do that as well it's
one or the other you definitely need one
of them I can show you why exactly hold
on let me grab the let me grab
this let me un unblur the screen for a
second
here okay
so let me show you
something I always use po as the
reference here because SP sp3 doesn't
even have lstm support so obviously
you're going to need it in Sp sp3 uh
cleaner oil does have lstm support so
these are like the two common libraries
right that people
use
velocity he just literally means like if
there's something moving in this in the
image
so look this is the PO lstm Atari
implementation right
here
um and if I look at the way that they do
their
lstm find it okay do you see right here
let me get out of the way
so this is how they do their lstm
so if you write your lstm with a python
loop it's going to be really
slow ours doesn't do this RS runs
without the loop so ours is fast so
basically like if you use an
implementation that looks like this then
yeah frame stacking is going to be
better just because the lstm slows your
code down so much but if you use a good
lstm implementation then actually
what'll happen is that it'll be faster
and better with an lstm compared to
frame stacking that's what I've
seen so so it's a matter of your
infrastructure with puffer Leb we pretty
much always use the
lstm there are also some dumb benchmarks
like clean RL has uh baselines in which
they do better without an LS they do
better with uh without an lstm than with
a lstm on some Atari environments but I
ran hyper parameter sweeps and it's
literally just hyper parameters like if
you have better hyper parameters
then uh the lstm will do just as well if
not
better so there you go there's your very
detailed
food's here in a few anybody have any
last RL questions or am I just going to
finish these last couple edits in the
background and be
frame stack only gives you that type of
information though linky it doesn't give
you any more permanent memory it gives
you Goldfish Memory
yeah and you're spending
accidentally quadratic there L key
because you're making as long as your
memory is you're spending that amount of
processing time so if you stack 64
frames now congratulations right you
have gigantic input and not only do you
have gigantic input but the com the way
coms work like you're
learning like separate features for each
time step in the past which is really
janky there's a bunch of weird stuff
with
that
reasonable okay well food is here I got
um I got like halfway through the eighth
one today so I
have half of eight 9 10 in the outro to
finish tomorrow so three and a half
clips and then I have to polish might
actually be able to finish editing
tomorrow that'd be
awesome um but
anyways yeah Star Puffer lib hold
on let me pull this up because it's
pretty been pretty cool the support on
this
lately pull up the filters
okay
so thanks for swinging by I'm usually
actually Devon code but uh if you want
to support the actual environments and
all the things that I'm building I'll
put this in the in the uh the stream
chat this is where all the work is it's
all free and open source so you can play
with it there start on the way in to
help me out repository has been doing
amazing lately though it looks like this
history charts broken for some reason
but yeah there we go
um and other than that yeah I'm hoping
hopefully this video will be out on like
Monday or whatever start of the
week and other than that I'm going to go
grab some food and I'll be back uh
tomorrow so thanks everyone and see you
around